instructions for upgrading to v0.10 (#984)
heptio/ark: docs/upgrading-to-v0.10.md

# Upgrading to Ark v0.10

## Overview

Ark v0.10 includes a number of breaking changes. Below, we outline what those changes are, and what steps you should take to ensure
a successful upgrade from prior versions of Ark.

## Breaking Changes

> ### Switch from Config CRD to BackupStorageLocation, VolumeSnapshotLocation, and server flags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Switch from Config to BackupStorageLocation and VolumeSnapshotLocation CRDs, and new server flags
```

rearrange any pre-v0.10 data as part of the upgrade. We've provided a script to help with this.

## Step-by-Step Upgrade Instructions

1. Scale down your existing Ark deployment:
```bash
kubectl scale -n heptio-ark deploy/ark --replicas 0
```

2. Re-apply the `00-prereqs.yaml` file to create new CRDs:
```bash
kubectl apply -f examples/common/00-prereqs.yaml
```

3. Create a [BackupStorageLocation][1] resource based on the examples provided in the `examples/` directory for your platform, using information from
the existing `Config` resource as necessary.

4. Create a [VolumeSnapshotLocation][2] resource based on the examples provided in the `examples/` directory for your platform, using information from
the existing `Config` resource as necessary.

5. Perform the one-time object storage migration detailed [here][3].

6. In your Ark deployment YAML (see the `examples/` directory for samples), specify any non-default settings as args to the `ark server` command:

| Flag | Default Value |
| ---- | ------------- |
| `--backup-sync-period` | 1m |
| `--restic-timeout` | 1h |
| `--restore-only` | false |

> 7. In your Ark deployment YAML, define your default `BackupStorageLocation` and `VolumeSnapshotLocations`  as args to the `ark server` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Still in your Ark deployment YAML, define the following as args to the `ark server` command:
- change `BackupStorageLocation` from the preset `default` name to another name if you would like to; this is the name of the location your backup will automatically be stored at so you don't need to specify it when you create a backup. If you want to use this default feature, it needs to match the name of at least 1 `BackupStorageLocation` CRD.
- if you will be backing up PVs, add `VolumeSnapshotLocations` (1 per provider, ex: `provider1:location-01,provider2:location-02,...`)
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. In your Ark deployment YAML, define your default `BackupStorageLocation` and `VolumeSnapshotLocations` as args to the `ark server` command:
```

Reviewer: Ah one thing I almost forgot to mention: in the deployment yaml under each provider's example folder, I think we should add at least an example for the BSL (w/ a name that is not `default` since that name is already the preset name in ark server), maybe even a couple for VSL. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Torn on this - the examples show the structure of the CRD. For most people, they're going to apply the example YAML file for their provider and only have 1 backupstoragelocation, much like how things were prior to v0.10. If we provide other examples, I think it will lead to confusion as to what file(s) to apply.

Reviewer: I `s/define/may define` to maybe reduce the potential for misunderstanding that you `must` define those args.

| Flag | Default Value | Description |
| ---- | ------------- | ----------- |

> | `--default-backup-storage-location` | "default" | name of the backup storage location that should be used by default for backups |

Reviewer: Technically this is redundant except if they change the name to something other than `default`. If you think the suggestion I made above makes sense, maybe change the name here to something else, idk, maybe `new-location`.

Reviewer: I was referring to the name `default`, since if you don't specify it it is the name ark server gives the default bsl. So naming it `default` is redundant.

Reviewer 2: The server doesn't create or name a BSL. That's name of the BSL it looks for - that CR still has to be created.

Reviewer: This was very confusing to me. I'm just saying, *now* I grasp this, but it took a lot of effort in trying to wrap my head around it. I suspect the language we are using could lead to understanding that we are creating a bsl, even tho we know this is not so.

Reviewer: `That's name of the BSL it looks for` -> I really like this language.

> | `--default-backup-storage-location` | "default" | name of the backup storage location that should be used by default for backups |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--default-backup-storage-location` | "new-location" | overwrite the preset name of `default` for the backup storage location that will be used by default for backups. This means you don't have to specify it when you create backups to be stored in this location (but you still need to define a `BackupStorageLocation` CRD) |
```

Reviewer: Oh, thanks for pointing that out @nrb. I missed that completely.

the existing `Config` resource as necessary.

5. Perform the one-time object storage migration detailed [here][3].

6. In your Ark deployment YAML (see the `examples/` directory for samples), specify flags to the `ark server` command under the container's `args`:

    a. The names of the `BackupStorageLocation` and `VolumeSnapshotLocation(s)` that should be used by default for backups, if none are explicitly
    specified by the user when creating a backup. Note that by default, the Ark server looks for a `BackupStorageLocation` named `default` to
    use.

        Flag | Default Value | Description | Example
        ---- | ------------- | ----------- | -----------------------
        `--default-backup-storage-location` | "default" | name of the backup storage location that should be used by default for backups | aws-us-east-1-bucket
        `--default-volume-snapshot-locations` | [none] | name of the volume snapshot location(s) that should be used by default for PV snapshots, for each PV provider | aws:us-east-1,portworx:local

>     **NOTE:** the values of these flags should correspond to the names of a `BackupStorageLocation` and `VolumeSnapshotLocation(s)` that you've created as

Author: Maybe I'll just remove this note? I think it's redundant with the main text of 6a - wdyt?

>     **NOTE:** the values of these flags should correspond to the names of a `BackupStorageLocation` and `VolumeSnapshotLocation(s)` that you've created as

Author: eh, nvm, wordsmithing.

    custom resources in the cluster, per steps (3) and (4).

    b. Any non-default Ark server settings:

        Flag | Default Value | Description
        ---- | ------------- | -----------

>         `--backup-sync-period` | 1m | how often to ensure all Ark backups in object storage exist as Backup API objects in the cluster

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to provide the names of the keys from `Config` struct here, too? `restic-timeout` was `podVolumeOperationTimeout` before, which isn't really obvious.

Author: Maybe I'll just mention it in the description for that one?  Seems redundant for the rest.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that's fine. I think it was undocumented earlier, too, so I'm skeptical it was in widespread use.
